# validationStudy
Students’ reading orientations, attentional behavior, reading engagement, and self-insight in upper secondary literature education

The prime aim of this study was to analyze the dimensionality and reliability of an instrument capable of measuring high school students’ reading orientations, attentional behavior, reading engagement, and self-insight. Existing scales were explored with the aim to validate a post facto measurement that can test the effects of interventions in literature education. For this purpose, a self-report questionnaire was administered to upper secondary grammar school student in three Austrian regions (N=417). First, Principal Axis Factoring with Promax rotation was conducted to explore the dimensionality of the data. Second, the reliability of the emergent scales was assessed. Third, predictors of self-insight were examined in multivariate regression analyses. Finally, the fit of the conceptual model underlying the instrument was evaluated. This study yielded an instrument with valid and reliable scores that assesses 11 dimensions of high school students’ reading experiences. First and foremost, the basic Kuiken-Douglas model (2017) on reading engagement and reading outcome could be replicated. We discovered that sustained attention needs to be complemented with flexible attention in order to bring about either inference-driven interpretation or expression-centered explication. In addition, high attentional focus negatively predicted experiential engagement with the literary text. Educational implications and limitations are discussed. 
Keywords: literature education; reading orientiation; attention; reading engagement; self-insight; structural equation modeling
